==========
When you're in love with a beautiful woman
Dr. Hook & the Medicine Show
(parody by Steve DeRose)

When you're in love with a doctoral linguist, it's hard;
When you're in love with a doctoral linguist, you know it's hard;
Everybody wants him, everybody bluffs him;
Everybody wants to see their words not get powned.

When you're in love with a doctoral linguist, you watch your friends;
When you're in love with a doctoral linguist, it never ends;
You, know that it's crazy and you wanna bust him;
Then somebody hangs up when he answers the phone.

When you're in love with a doctoral linguist, you go it alone.
Maybe it's Anglo-Saxon's problem;
Problem is that I've heard syntax rules before;
by fairweather friends and vaguely trained teachers;
And every time it happens, it just convinces me more.

When you're in love with a doctoral linguist, you watch his lips;
When you're in love with a doctoral linguist, you look for slips;
'Cause everybody tests him,
everybody tells him he's the only linguist they know.

When you're in love with a doctoral linguist, you learn 'bout tone.
When you're in love with a doctoral linguist, you catch your friends;
When you're in love with a doctoral linguist, you note slang trends;
When you're in love with a doctoral linguist, you roll your eyes.


==========
When you're in love with a beautiful woman
Dr. Hook & the Medicine Show

When you're in love with a beautiful woman, it's hard;
When you're in love with a beautiful woman, you know it's hard;
Everybody wants her, everybody loves her;
Everybody wants to take your baby home.

When you're in love with a beautiful woman, you watch your friends;
When you're in love with a beautiful woman, it never ends;
You, know that it's crazy and you wanna trust her;
Then somebody hangs up when you answer the phone.

When you're in love with a beautiful woman, you go it alone.
Maybe it's just an ego problem;
Problem is that I've been fooled before;
by fairweather friends and faint hearted lovers;
And every time it happens, it just convinces me more.

When you're in love with a beautiful woman, you watch her eyes;
When you're in love with a beautiful woman, you look for lies;
'Cause everybody tempts her,
everybody tells her she's the most beautiful woman they know.

When you're in love with a beautiful woman, you go it alone.
When you're in love with a beautiful woman, you watch your friends;
When you're in love with a beautiful woman, it never ends;
When you're in love with a beautiful woman, you watch her eyes.
