=======

I write the content models for a modern validation tool,
I've information elements canonical and minimal,
My tags are not delinquent, and I quote the attributes and all
From XML to PostScript, too, in ordered trees hierarchical.

I'm very well acquainted, too, with schema rules grammatical,
I understand MathML, both the simple and quadratical,
About finite automata I'm teeming with a lot o' news;
To writing fearful detail checks in Schematron I've gotten used.

I'm very good at Unicode and document analysis;
I know the scientific names of parser bugs voluminous:
In short, in matters validated, XML, and minimal,
I write the content models for a modern validation tool.

I know our mythic histories, King Goldfarb's and Sir TimBL's;
When faced with diagnostics, I make do with well-formed XML,
I quote in entity-refs all the crimes of Ampersands and such,
In content I can tag peculiarities lugubrious;

I can tell undoubted LMNLs from Rabbit-Ducks and Trojan trees,
I know the 4-part chorus for the speeches of Sperberg-McQueen's!
Then I can add some lines for them in metadata Dublin Core,
To make it obvious he has the claim to be contributor.

Now I can write my Python code in UTF cuneiform,
And tell you ev'ry rule that makes the characters all uniform:
In short, in matters validated, XML, and minimal,
I write the content models for a modern validation tool.

In fact, when I know what is meant by "well-formed" and "draconian",
When I can tell at sight a syntax error from encomium,
When XSLT transformations leave the text entirely flat,
And when I know precisely who's on ISO Secretariat,

When I have learnt what progress has been made in JSON flummery,
When I know more of graphics than a typist in recovery –
In short, when I'm done shattering each element's legality –
You'll say a better valida'tion tool is built on XSD.

For my topiary knowledge, all the pruning and adjoinery,
Has only been brought down to the beginning of the century;
But still, in matters validated, XML, and minimal,
I write the content models for a modern validation tool.


===================

I am the very model of a modern Major-General,
I've information vegetable, animal, and mineral,
I know the kings of England, and I quote the fights historical
From Marathon to Waterloo, in order categorical;[a]
I'm very well acquainted, too, with matters mathematical,
I understand equations, both the simple and quadratical,
About binomial theorem I'm teeming with a lot o' news,
With many cheerful facts about the square of the hypotenuse.

I'm very good at integral and differential calculus;
I know the scientific names of beings animalculous:
In short, in matters vegetable, animal, and mineral,
I am the very model of a modern Major-General.

I know our mythic history, King Arthur's and Sir Caradoc's;
I answer hard acrostics, I've a pretty taste for paradox,
I quote in elegiacs all the crimes of Heliogabalus,
In conics I can floor peculiarities parabolous;
I can tell undoubted Raphaels from Gerard Dows and Zoffanies,
I know the croaking chorus from The Frogs of Aristophanes!
Then I can hum a fugue of which I've heard the music's din afore,
And whistle all the airs from that infernal nonsense Pinafore.

Then I can write a washing bill in Babylonic cuneiform,
And tell you ev'ry detail of Caractacus's uniform:
In short, in matters vegetable, animal, and mineral,
I am the very model of a modern Major-General.

In fact, when I know what is meant by "mamelon" and "ravelin",
When I can tell at sight a Mauser rifle from a javelin,
When such affairs as sorties and surprises I'm more wary at,
And when I know precisely what is meant by "commissariat",
When I have learnt what progress has been made in modern gunnery,
When I know more of tactics than a novice in a nunnery –
In short, when I've a smattering of elemental strategy –
You'll say a better Major-General has never sat a gee.

For my military knowledge, though I'm plucky and adventury,
Has only been brought down to the beginning of the century;
But still, in matters vegetable, animal, and mineral,
I am the very model of a modern Major-General.


