[apologies to Edgar Allan Poe]

ONCE upon a midnight dreary, while I browséd, weak and weary,
over many tainted rend'rings in old Internet Explor',
While I fretted, tags o'rlapping, suddenly there came a tapping,
As of someone gently rapping, challenging my schema's core.

"'Tis some visitor," I muttered, "challenging my schema's core.
HTML: I need no more!"

Ah, distinctly I remember validating data members
And each separate tagging error wrought its increase on my chore.

Eagerly I wished the morrow -- vainly I had sought to borrow
"tidy" for surcease of sorrow -- sorrow for texts made offshore,
For the tireless tagging maidens whom the project hired offshore:
Nameless here for evermore.

And the parser -- sad uncertain victim of each ill-formed tagging
crashéd -- filled up with fantastic errors never seen before;
So that now to still the bleating of my screen I stood repeating
"'Tis some visitor entreating changes to my schema's core,
Some late visitor entreating changes to my schema's core:
This it is and nothing more."

Presently waxed my boss’s anger; <b> and <table> worked no longer.
"Sir," said I, "or Madam, truly your forgiveness I implore;
But the fact is that it's rendered, never mind the blind or tenured!"
Then so faintly came one tapping, sapping at my schema's core,
Thoughts I scarce had thought I needed -- here I opened wide the door: --
Darkness there and nothing more.

Deep into that darkness peering, long I stood there wondering, fearing,
Doubting, dreaming schemes no mortals dared to scheme before;
Still the beeping was unbroken, and the parser gave no token,
And the only word there spoken was the fateful word, "Offshore?"
"Yes" I whispered, and an echo murmured back the word, "Offshore."
Merely this and nothing more.

Back to the computer turning, all my soul within me burning,
Soon again I heard a tapping somewhat louder than before.

"Surely," said I, "surely that is nothing but my Windows status;
Let me see, then, what the message, and this mystery explore;
Let my heart be still a moment and this bright blue screen explore:
Windows 'tis and nothing more."

Closed IE now with a mutter, when, with many a flirt and flutter,
In there stepped a stately Maven of the markup days of yore.

Not the least obeisance made he; not a minute stopped or stayed he;
But, with mien of lord or lady, perched within my chamber door
Perched aside a bust of Goldfarb just above my chamber door:
Perched, and stared, and nothing more.

Then this regius beguiling my sad fancy into smiling
By the grave and stern decorum of the countenance I spy, --
"Though thou be not shorn and shaven, thou," I said, "art sure no craven,
Ghastly grim and ancient Maven wandering from the tagger's sky:
Tell me what thy schema name is for my texts' improvement try!"
Quoth the Maven, "TEI."

Much I marveled insecurely though he discoursed cavalierly,
In his answer little meaning -- little relevance I spy;
For we cannot help be vehement: no consulting work agreement
Ever yet allowed for money, late for "changing schemas" spent
(for Maven aside a sculptured bust within the chamber nigh),
to such scheme as "TEI."

But the Maven sitting lonely by the placid bust spoke only
That one word, as if his soul in that one word he did outpour.

Nothing further then he uttered, but with schema tweaks he puttered,
Till I scarcely more than muttered -- "Other schemes I've oft applied;
On the morrow he will leave me, as my Hopes are left to die."
Quoth the Maven, "TEI."

Startled at the stillness broken by reply so aptly spoken,
"Doubtless," said I, "what it utters is its only tag supply,
Learned from some unhappy editor whom unmerciful Disaster
Followed fast and followed faster till his texts one schema ply:
Till the dirges of his Hope that melancholy schema try:
with the tags called “TEI."

But the Maven still beguiling all my fancy into smiling,
Straight I wheeled a cushioned seat in front of screen and bust and more;
Then, upon the velvet sinking, I betook myself to linking
Feature unto feature, thinking what my ominous boss would cry,
What my grim, ungainly, ghastly, gaunt, and ominous boss would cry,
when I gave her "TEI."

This I sat engaged in guessing, but no syllable expressing
To the one whose fiery eyes burned away my schema's lies.
Tags with meaning now divining, now my long-term fears declining
On the cushion's velvet lining as I made my files comply,
<resp> and <titlestmt> tagging, through the parser now I fly!
Nothing less than TEI!

Then, methought, the air grew denser, perfumed from an unseen censer
Swung by seraphim whose foot-falls tinkled on the tufted floor.

"Wretch," I cried, "thy God hath lent thee -- by these angels he hath sent thee
Respite -- respite and nepenthe from thy tagging done awry!"
Quaff, oh quaff this kind nepenthe, and HTML deny."
Quoth the Maven, "TEI.”
